#summary A list of directives of ISO, IEC (TC100), and JTC1

= Common directives =

[http://isotc.iso.org/livelink/livelink/fetch/2000/2122/3146825/4229629/4230450/4230455/ISO_IEC_Directives%2C_Part_1_%28Procedures_for_the_technical_work%29_%282011%2C_8th_ed.%29_%28PDF_format%29.pdf?nodeid=10563026&vernum=-2 ISO/IEC Directives, Part 1: Procedures for the technical work] describes rules common to ISO, IEC, and ISO/IEC JTC1.



== ISO supplements ==

[http://isotc.iso.org/livelink/livelink?func=ll&objId=4230452&objAction=browse&sort=subtype  ISO Supplement, Procedures specific to ISO] introduces rules specific to ISO.

Note: Some other documents specific to ISO are also available at [http://isotc.iso.org/livelink/livelink?func=ll&objId=4230452&objAction=browse&sort=subtype 03 ISO Supplement (English)], but they are not very relevant to the EPUB discussions.


== IEC supplements ==

[http://www.iec.ch/members_experts/refdocs/iec/isoiec-dir-iecsup%7Bed6.0%7Den.pdf Procedures specific to IEC] introduces rules specific to IEC.

Furthermore, TC100 has its own rules, which are described by [http://tc100.iec.ch/about/structure/100_1180e_INF.pdf TC 100 Guidelines and Procedures].  This document describes the TC100-specific fast procedure.

Recently, the Standardization Management Board (SMB)  of IEC made a [http://code.google.com/p/dejureepub/downloads/detail?name=AC_20118e_AC.pdf&can=2&q= decision] to reduce the enquiry period.



== JTC1 supplements ==

[http://www.iso.org/jtc1supplement  Procedures specific to JTC 1] introduces rules specific to JTC1.

Furthermore, JTC1 has [http://isotc.iso.org/livelink/livelink?func=ll&objId=7849325&objAction=browse&sort=name standing documents].  They also describe rules specific to JTC1.  One of them, namely Standing Document 5 is about normative references.

== ISO/IEC procedures for liaison and work allocation ==

Annex B:  _ISO/IEC procedures for liaison and work allocation_ in [http://isotc.iso.org/livelink/livelink/fetch/2000/2122/3146825/4229629/4230450/9482942/JTC_1_Supplement_%28pdf_version%29.pdf?nodeid=9484244&vernum=-2  Procedures specific to JTC 1] provides  procedures 
for coordination and allocation of work between the technical committees and 
subcommittees of both ISO and IEC.

Note: AHG4 should study this Annex carefully.