#summary Options to be considered about standardizing EPUB

=1. Time frame =

 * Right now (assuming EPUB2)
 * Immediately after the completion of EPUB3.0 at IDPF
 * Only when HTML5 and CSS3 modules referenced by EPUB3 becomes stable. (2013?)

=2. Which "standard" type at ISO, IEC, or JTC1 ?= 

 * Technical Report
 * Technical Specification
 * International Standard

 Note: International standard are better, but the other two might be good enough. The first two options are much easier than International Standards.

=3. Which version and which subset of IDPF EPUB ? =

 * EPUB 2
 * EPUB 3
 * OCF of EPUB only

=4. Which process of ISO, IEC, or JTC1 ? =

 * Normal
 * PAS

 Note: "Fast-track" is not an option, unless IDPF becomes a category-A liaison with JTC1.  Note that IDPF is neither a country or region.

=5. Which working group?=

 * A new WG directly under JTC1
 * JWG (one parent SC is needed)
  # Formation of the JWG requires agreements
  # One SC becomes the only parent
  # NWIPs are conducted by the parent SC
  # For each SC-level ballot, each SC conducts its own ballot but the parent SC conducts comment disposition.
  # JTC1-level ballots are handled by JTC1.
 * A new WG under one parent SC having other SCs as liaisons

=6. What should be the real relationship between the WG and IDPF ? =

 == Liaison relationship and MOU with ISO to use EPUB==

 (1) SC34 and IDPF need to make liaison relationship (type ?)
  - SC34 can invite IDPF as a liaison.

 (2) SC34 need to consider taking EPUB inself as an ISO TR
  - In this case, three parts of EPUB(OPS, OCF, and OPF) will be taken in SC34

 (3) ISO central office make MOU with IDPF to issue EPUB specifications as ISO documents

  Note 1: ISO/IEC JTC1 SC36 and IMS Global Learning Consortium followed above precedure to issue IMS specifications such as Access for All and Content Packaging.

  Note 2: See the ISO/IEC JTC1 resolution:
    Resolution 58 – Standardization of EPUB
    JTC 1 resolves that SC 34 initiate a joint activity inviting IDPF, IEC/TC 100 TA10, SC 29, SC 36 and potentially ISO/TC 46/SC 4 (and others) to develop a strategy for the possible standardization of EPUB 3.0 and necessary complementary interfaces.


Note: Ballots will lead to some technical changes, since member bodies will submit some sensible comments. Moreover, member bodies will submit defect reports, which should be handled.

 == ODF model (SC34/WG6 and OASIS ODF TC) ==

 SC34 does not make any technical decisions, but the ODF TC makes decisions.
 OASIS ODF and ISO/IEC ODF should be synchronized, but there have been serious timing issues.

 == Unicode model (SC2 and Unicode consortium) ==

 Some technical decisions (e.g., CJK) are made in SC2 IRG, but most of the technical decisions are made in the Unicode Consortium.
 Unicode and 10646 are not identical. They share the same character names and code values.

 == OOXML model (SC34/WG4 and ECMA TC46) ==

 Technical decisions can made ~~only~~ in SC34, because ECMA members actively participate in all WG4 meetings.
 ISO/IEC OOXML and Ecma OOXML should be synchronized (even if subtle timing issues exist, but they have been minimized).