#summary Which group should be responsible?

Warning: This page is still sketchy.

= Joint WG =

TWO OR MORE international committees are made jointly responsible for
maintenance, with one committee appointed to provide administration. A
Joint Working Group is formed under the administrative committee, but any
the international committees involved have an effective veto on decisions.
Consensus will be hard to reach if the separate committees have sharply-
divergent interests. Joint Working Groups only work well if factional
interests do NOT divide along committee boundaries.

[http://isotc.iso.org/livelink/livelink/fetch/2000/2122/3146825/4229629/4230450/4230455/ISO_IEC_Directives%2C_Part_1_%28Procedures_for_the_technical_work%29_%282011%2C_8th_ed.%29_%28PDF_format%29.pdf?nodeid=10563026&vernum=-2 ISO/IEC Directives, Part 1: Procedures for the technical work] defines joint working groups as follows:


 _1.12.6  In special cases a joint working group (JWG) may be established to undertake a 
 specific task in which more than one ISO and/or IEC technical committee or subcommittee is 
 interested. The decision to establish a joint working group shall be accompanied by mutual 
 agreement  between   the committees  on: 

 - the committee/ organization having the administrative responsibility for the project; 

 - the convenor of the joint working group; 

 -  the membership  of   the  joint  working group  (membership may be open  to  all   interested  
 experts from the parent committees, or it may be decided to limit the participation to equal 
 numbers from each of the parent committee for example). _
 
 _The committee/organization with the administrative responsibility for the project shall:
 
 -  record  the project  in  their  programme of  work; _

 _- ensure that the comments and votes at all stages of the project are compiled and handled 
 appropriately (see 2.5,  2.6 and  2.7)  ; 

 - prepare drafts for the committee, enquiry and approval stages according to procedures 
 given in 2.5, 2.6 and 2.7; 

 - be responsible for maintenance of the publication.  
 A proposal to establish a joint ISO/IEC working group, including decisions on which 
 committee/organization is responsible for final publication and subsequent maintenance of the 
 publication, the joint working group convenor and membership shall be submitted for 
 information to the technical management boards (see also B.4.2.11)._

The above description does not clearly define the way projects in JWGs are handled.  
The SC34 secretariat contacted ITTF and found some more information.

 * NP ballots are conducted only in the committee/organization with the administrative responsibility for the project.

 * CD ballots are conducted in all of the involved committees in parallel, although some committees (e.g., ISO/TCs) do not conduct a ballot but merely circulate a committee draft just for comment.  Consensus within and among all committees is required to progress to the enquiry stage (DIS) .  (according to JTC 1 Supplement JA.4, ISO/IEC Directives Annex B, and information from ITTF)

 * DIS ballots are conducted as normal JTC1 (combined) ballots.

 * Comment disposition for ballots are assigned to the JWG.

It is probably a bit too early to list pros and cons of this option, but there are no mechanisms for achieving consensus within and among all committees.  Without such a mechanism, this option might prevent EPUB3 from progressing to the enquiry stage.

== JTC1 WG ==

Aa JWG under JTC 1 is simply a special case.  A
JWG under JTC 1 is very unlikely to be approved, because the rules make it
pretty clear that a JWG under JTC 1 would only be set up if the topic of
standardization does not fall within the current scope of an existing
committee. Since all the committees interested in EPUB would argue that it
falls within the scope of their interests, it would be absurd to try to
suggest that it doesn't fall within the scope of any of them and therefore
a JWG of JTC 1 is needed.

= A normal WG under existing SCs ==

A SINGLE international committee is responsible for administration and
for setting up a Working Group of international experts to contribute to
the maintenance process. If experts from other committees are strongly
interested in EPUB 3.0, they should probably become members of the national
mirror committees of this single international committee, because, without
voting rights, liaison members can only indirectly influence committee
decisions. Consensus is relatively easy to reach, unless national experts
are divided and mirror committees fail to agree positions.

== IEC TC100/TA10 ==

The TC100-specific fast procedure is available.
A PAS document is an option.

== ISO TC46 ==

A PAS document is an option.

== JTC1/SC34 ==

The JTC1 PAS procedure is available.
A PAS document is _not_ an option.