#summary Options to be considered about standardizing EPUB at SC34.

= Which "standard" at JTC1? =

 * Technical Reports
 * Technical Specifications
 * International Standards

Of course, standards are better, but the other two might be good enough.  The first two are much easier.

= Which EPUB of IDPF? =

 * EPUB 2.0.1
 * EPUB 3.0

= Which process? =

 * Normal
 * PAS

Note: "Fast-track" is not an option, since IDPF is not a country or region.

= What should be the real relationship between SC34 and IDPF? ==

It is assumed that the two organizations have different committees and different chairs.

== ODF model (SC34/WG6 and OASIS ODF TC) ==

SC34 does not make any technical decisions.  The ODF TC 
committee makes decisions.

OASIS ODF and ISO/IEC ODF should be in sync, but there have been serious timing issues.

== Unicode model (SC2 and Unicode consortium) ==

Some technical decisions  (e.g., CJK) are made in SC2 IRG, but most 
of the technical decisions are made in the Unicode Consortium.

Unicode and 10646 are not identical.  They share the same character names 
and code values.

== OOXML model (SC34/WG4 and Ecma TC46) ==

Technical decisions are made only in SC34.  Ecma members actively participate 
in all WG4 meetings.

ISO/IEC OOXML and Ecma OOXML should in sync (subtle timing issues exist but they 
have been minimized).

= Inputs from SC34 and JTC1 member bodies  =

Ballots in SC34 and JTC1 will lead to some technical changes, since there will be 
some sensible technical comments from member bodies.
Moreover, SC34 member bodies will submit defect reports, which should be handled.