#summary A list of types of standards


Which  type of "standard" type at ISO, IEC, or JTC1 is appropriate for EPUB3?

 <wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Technical Specifications  =

This option is defined in [http://isotc.iso.org/livelink/livelink/fetch/2000/2122/3146825/4229629/4230450/4230455/ISO_IEC_Directives%2C_Part_1_%28Procedures_for_the_technical_work%29_%282011%2C_8th_ed.%29_%28PDF_format%29.pdf?nodeid=10563026&vernum=-2 ISO/IEC Directives, Part 1: Procedures for the technical work] as below:

 3.1  Technical Specifications 

 3.1.1    Technical Specifications may be prepared and published under the following 
 circumstances and conditions. 

 3.1.1.1    When the subject in question is still under development or where for any other 
 reason  there  is   the future but  not  immediate possibility of an agreement to publish an 
 International Standard, the technical committee or subcommittee may decide, by following the 
 procedure set out in  2.3,   that   the publication of  a Technical  Specification would be  
 appropriate. The procedure for preparation of such a Technical Specification shall be as set 
 out   in   2.4 and  2.5.  The decision  to publish  the resulting document  as  a Technical 
 Specification shall require a two-thirds majority vote of the P-members voting of the technical 
 commit tee or subcommi ttee.  The  reasons  for  publishing   the Technical  Specification, and an 
 explanation of its relationship to the expected future International Standard, shall be given in 
 the foreword. ...
 
 In IEC, Technical Specifications are subject to the same review and maintenance procedures 
 as IEC Standards. The final paragraph of the above text will therefore need to be replaced by 
 the relevant information on stability dates (see also IEC Supplement to the ISO/IEC 
 Directives) . 

  3.1.1.2    When   the required  support  cannot  be obta ined  for  a  f ina l draf t   Internationa l 
  Standard to pass the approval stage (see 2.7), or in case of doubt concerning consensus, the 
  technical committee or subcommittee may decide, by a two-thirds majority vote of P-members 
  voting, that the document should be published in the form of a Technical Specification. The 
  reasons why the required support could not be obtained shall be given in the foreword to the 
  Technical Specification. 
  
  3.1.2    When the P-members of a technical committee or subcommittee have agreed upon 
  the publication of  a Technical  Specification,   the draft  specification shall  be  submitted  in 
  machine-readable form by the secretariat of the technical committee or subcommittee to the 
  office of the Chief Executive Officer within 4 months for publication. 
  
  3.1.3    Technical Specifications shall be subject to review by the technical committee or 
  subcommittee not later than 3 years after their publication. The aim of such review shall be to 
  re-examine   the situation which  resulted  in   the publication of  a Technical  Specificat ion and  if 
  possible to achieve the agreement necessary for the publication of an International Standard 
  to  replace  the Technical  Specificat ion.   In   IEC, the date  for   this  review is based on the stability 
  date which shall be agreed in advance of the publication of the Technical Specification 
  (review date). 

* Pros
   * This option is easier and requires less time.
 * Cons
   * This option might not be good enough for marketing.

= Technical  Reports =
This option is not viable, since the EPUB3 specifications "contain matter   implying   that   it  is normative".
This option is defined in [http://isotc.iso.org/livelink/livelink/fetch/2000/2122/3146825/4229629/4230450/4230455/ISO_IEC_Directives%2C_Part_1_%28Procedures_for_the_technical_work%29_%282011%2C_8th_ed.%29_%28PDF_format%29.pdf?nodeid=10563026&vernum=-2 ISO/IEC Directives, Part 1: Procedures for the technical work] as below:

  3.3  Technical  Reports 

  3.3.1    When a  technical  committee or  subcommittee has collected data of  a different  kind  
  from that which is normally published as an International Standard (this may include, for 
  example, data obtained from a survey carried out among the national bodies, data on work in 
  other international organizations or data on the "state of the art" in relation to standards of 
  national bodies on a particular subject), the technical committee or subcommittee may decide, 
  by a simple majority vote of P-members voting, to request the Chief Executive Officer to
  publish such data   in  the  form of a Technical  Report .  The document  shall  be  entirely 
  informative  in  nature and shall  not  contain matter   implying   that   it  is normative.   It shall  clearly 
  explain its relationship to normative aspects of the subject  which are,  or  will  be,  dealt  within 
  International Standards related to the subject. The Chief Executive Officer, if necessary in 
  consultation with the technical management board, shall decide whether to publish the 
  document as a Technical Report. 

  3.3.2    When the P-members of a technical committee or subcommittee have agreed upon 
  the publication of  a Technical  Report ,   the draft   report  shall  be  submitted  in machine-readable 
  form by  the secretariat  of   the  technical  committee or subcommittee to the Chief Executive 
  Officer within 4 months for publication. 

  3.3.3    It is recommended that Technical Reports are regularly reviewed by the committee 
  responsible,  to ensure  that   they remain  valid.  Withdrawal  of  a Technical  Report   is  decided by 
  the technical committee or subcommittee responsible.


= PAS =

This option is defined in [http://isotc.iso.org/livelink/livelink/fetch/2000/2122/3146825/4229629/4230450/4230455/ISO_IEC_Directives%2C_Part_1_%28Procedures_for_the_technical_work%29_%282011%2C_8th_ed.%29_%28PDF_format%29.pdf?nodeid=10563026&vernum=-2 ISO/IEC Directives, Part 1: Procedures for the technical work] as below:

  3.2  Publicly Available Specifications (PAS)  
  
  3.2.1    A PAS may be an intermediate  specification, published prior to the development of a 
  full International Standard, or, in IEC may be a “dual logo” publication published in 
  collaboration with  an  external  organizat ion.  I t   is a document  not  fulfill ing  the  requirements   for  
  a standard. 
  
  3.2.2    A proposal for submission of a PAS may be made by an A-liaison or D-liaison
  (see 1.17.2 and 1.17.3)  or  by any P-member  of   the committee . 
  
  3.2.3    The PAS is published after verification of the presentation and checking that there is 
  no conflict with existing International Standards by the committee concerned and following 
  simple majority approval of the P-members voting of the committee concerned. 
  
  3.2.4    A PAS shall remain valid for an ini tial  maximum per iod of  3 years.  The validity may be 
  extended for a single period up to a maximum of 3 years, at the end of which it shall be 
  published as another type of normative document, or shall be withdrawn. 

 * Pros
   * This option is easier and requires less time.
 * Cons
   * This option might not be good enough for marketing.